Theory to review:

UID / GID

UID refers to user ID number.
GID refers to group ID number. 

These are used to tell Lunx who is the owner of a file and what group it belongs to.

Unmask: 
A permissions filter that instead of adding permissions, it removed them. It's a value that you substract from the Linux default permissions to grant only the permissions you want to grant.

setuid allows you to run a program as the owner. So it temporarily lets you get the permissions of the file owner. 
setgid Allows you to run the program as the files group, of if you set it on a directory, all files inside the directory get the same group, so they have group permissions.

inode vs. path:
inode is where file permissions, owner (UID) and group (GID), size, timestamp and location of the file live. So it's all the metadata that is connected to a file. 
path is the actual path that points to the inode (the file).

mounts & fstab:
To mount is to temporarily attach a device like a disk or a USB to a folder so you can see it and use it. 
fstab stores a list of devices that should be mounted when the system starts. 

Self-questions:
What is umask?
It’s the default rule that removes permissions from new files. Example: umask 022 removes “write” for group/others.

How do hard links work?
A hard link is just another path that points to the same inode, in other words, the same file. If you delete the initial file, the hard link will still work.
A soft link is just like a shortcut that points to the path where the file is, but not to the actual file. So if the file is deleted, the link doesn't work.

What does setuid do?
It allows you to run a program as the file’s owner instead of you. For example,  passwd runs as root to change passwords.

How to find large files?
Use du or find:

du -ah / | sort -h | tail
# or
find / -type f -size +100M


How to mount a device persistently?
Add it to /etc/fstab with device, mount point, type, and options. This will make it to mount automatically on reboot. For example:

/dev/sdb1   /data   ext4   defaults   0 2

